well with me in the studio are three
Brave women three mothers who are going
through that same torment B cha yahalomi
who is waiting for news of her husband
oad and a 12-year-old son atan Rana
Jacob whose boy boys a and yagel 16 and
12 are still missing and Hadas Calderon
her two children Sahar and arz 16 and 12
and their father who we also think is in
Gaza thank you all for being with us and
I'm sorry it's under such difficult
circumstances but sh let me start with
you
tell me what happened to you on October
the
7th
um at 6 and a half at 6 and a half in
the morning we woke up there was many
alarms we heard many many Rockets we
know what to do in this in this
situation and we went to the safe
room we had a problem with the door H we
couldn't close it so we sat inside
trying to be very very quiet it was very
difficult to do it because I have a
small baby she's one years and8 8
months and two other
children ER we sat like this for 2 hours
and very fast we understood something
else is uh happening something that we
are not we don't
know uh we started to hear a
gunshot gunshot from outside on the
window on the walls from outside we
started to hear sounds and people
talking in Arabs outside shouting
albar we smelled things burning we heard
things
breaking we were
terrified and after 2 hours Ohad my
husband decided to go outside the safe
room and to shut the door on us this was
the only way to show to close the door
so we went outside and
waited H he told us from outside that he
loves us we told him we love
him at about
10:00 H the terrorist entered our house
and they shoot all had we heard him
screaming and they entered the safe
room four Hamas terrorists with uniforms
and full arms armed
entered me and my three children were
sitting close one to each other they
started to shout at us in Arabs and they
said also come come in
English I understood they want to take
us together to kidnap
us I told my children to scream I wanted
to earn time maybe the Army will come to
save us so all of us were
screaming but the Army was not at the K
boots after a few minutes one of them
pointed us with his gun and told me I
shoot he didn't left us any choice so we
went out of the safe
room we saw Ohad sitting outside
bleeding
injured he told us he loves us and he
told us to go with him with the the
terrorists I tried to save my save my
baby I put the baby on oh had I thought
they would let me leave her there but
they didn't they took her and they
pushed us out of the
house they asked me for my car my key
car they wanted us to go with my car
together with them but when we went out
of the house I saw everything was
burning everything was on fire the cars
the
houses
everything so I told one of them that
the car is
burning then we waited outside they were
filming us I was begging them to leave
the children to let them go and take
only
me but they didn't
listen then two motorcycle were coming H
they took a t my boy he's 12 to the
first motorcycle and one of the
terrorists that was holding my baby were
sitting h on this
motorcycle me and yel she's 10 were
sitting on the second motorcycle with
two
terrorists luckily my baby was crying so
they gave me the baby so itan was in
front with a
terrorist me Y and my baby were sitting
on the the second H
motorcycle we starting driving through
the
kibuts the kibuts was destroyed was
burning big
horror but what was very very shocking
was uh there was hundreds of terrorists
in our
kibuts not just terrorists there was
only a
also citizen from GAA that came to
destroy to burn and to loot everything
they could I saw children with
television everything they could they
took and the they started to go to Gaza
through Gaza a hundreds of people going
on the main road to togethera and we
with with the two motorcycle were're
driving through
them very near to Gaza two tank of of
the army has arrived
they were driving tanks tanks
yeah they were driving wildly and the
terrorists were starting to run
everywhere there was a big
house our motorcycle was H
falling this was the last time I saw my
son aan his motorcycle I've seen
him going through
Gaza and since s you've not you've not
had any contact any contact any news
from him and is that the same for you
ran your children or and Y girl were
taken you were away from the house at
the time I was away uh they were
sleeping alone at home yil is 12 and Ora
um you said they were missing they're
not missing they were kidnapped from
their safe home from the place that they
live in from their
beds on a Saturday
morning uh you know try and imagine
anyone try and imagine your children
sleeping in their beds waking up to an
alarm which is scary enough as it is
when you're alone at home then realizing
there are terrorists walking freely
outside and that was a situation um
about um an hour after the attack
started we started getting text messages
from other members of the community we
live in a small communal Community
kibuts
um saying that there are terrorists
walking outside fre and whichever was
just describing and the shabab that you
were talking about earlier and
um uh the boys told me that they hear
gunshots outside and I started
reassuring them it's the Army coming to
to save them
um and at a certain point uh they were
on the phone to me about two hours after
this it's all started and they they
whispered to me on the phone yil my
youngest he was 12 uh said said there's
people coming in people who was
whispering there's people walking in the
house someone broke into the house so
they were there on their Terri they yeah
they were alone in the SoCal safe room
like adults in in the safe room they
were having to take these decisions
themselves yeah well I was there with
them on the phone um but yes and their
father was in a different safe room and
I was in a different safe room and their
father was shot and they called you know
um his father their father called them
to to us to uh to get some help I tried
uh to get some help uh sent to him but
uh it was in vain all the houses in the
were at the same situation at the time
and uh as I said I heard I heard them
saying someone's broken in and two
minutes later I they I heard people
speak on the phone I heard people
speaking in Arabic and the door went
open and the last thing I heard my
youngest boy saying to me on the phone a
month ago that was my last call from him
he was begging for them not to take him
he said I'm too young you can take me
please don't take me I'm too young and
they took him um and as I said they're
not missing they were kidnapped from
their home you said
um imagine what it's like I can't
actually I've got two children myself
and I I can't imagine I can't imagine
what that's like
um it's beyond imagination hadass five
members of your family were
taken um your mother 80 and your niece
were murdered so you know that and you
yet you you you haven't had time to
grieve really because your your children
sah and Aras and their father of are all
missing
kidnapped what what do you what what do
you want the Israeli government to do
because Mr Netanyahu thinks that Force
is the best answer and he thinks there
should not be a humanitarian pause I
wonder what you think of
that I think one thing I'm a man I'm a
mother I'm not a political I can't give
give Solutions I can't give my point of
view about the act the Army act I'm a
mom I can say one thing I want my
children
back it's the only thing I can say
7 of
October my family break apart it's a
black day it's a hell of a
day five members of my family been
kidnapped two of
them been murdered already my mom she
was 8 years old wonderful sweetheart
warm dear lady and my niece she was a
miracle girl with a autism special needs
girl they've been murdered as you said I
don't have the time even to gri I didn't
even went to the funeral because I have
to fight for the one who's still
alive for my two children a as 12 years
old sweet sensitive fragile boy young
boy and my daughter Saha beautiful 16
years old girl te teager girl and their
father I have to fight for them and I
want them
back Hadas we're just going to pause for
a second I'm just going to say goodbye
to our viewers around the world who are
watching but I want to continue with our
UK viewers who are who are still with us
um
renana how how how do you how I mean
you're here it's really important to say
this you come under your own own steam
the three of you not without not with
the is government not not anyone's
urging a private initiation of the
parents of the children we have 32
children who were kidnapped we uh sort
of collected the children from the lists
and made our own group and uh decided to
initiate a visit and to approach anyone
who can help us get the Children
released
immediately um you know we we just say
kids are out of the game they shouldn't
be waiting for a deal they shouldn't be
and we're here um on this private
initiation we came here to meet with uh
qatar's Ambassador uh in the UK hoping
he will enlist to the effort and he's
very um he's very obligated he's given
us the impression that Qatar is doing
whatever they can to help and I do
believe him uh he was very he was very
empathetic to us uh and he's a family
man and it's an unfair question to ask
you because you're suffering and you are
the victims here but but you'll be aware
as well that there are children on the
other side oh yeah lots of children as
well um do you have a view on on where
this goes
next the only thing I can say as a
mother and I you know I tell it
everywhere I go I used to tell my
children all the time that children
anywhere in the world are children
they're humans and they should be seen
as ones and I'm trying to give good
education to my children in regards to
looking at the people in Gaza and
especially the children in Gaza as
humans and I'm sort of hoping that
mothers on the other end of the fence
see me as such but I'm not sure anymore
I used to but I'm not sure anymore um I
want human left I don't know there so
much violence going on so much violence
going on but you know my heart goes out
to every child and every mother who
becomes a victim of this and I think
Hamas is holding two two million
hostages apart from our hostages which
are the Palestinians themselves and
among them the children so let us just
pause and have a children's time out get
our children out and get the Gaza
children out let's get them out of the
equation do you have a view on
how the media and and and the agenda in
the last couple of weeks has sort of
focused entirely on Gaza do do you have
any frustration concern that in some
ways the hostages in in the Israeli
government said the UN doesn't focus
enough on the hostage doesn't put enough
pressure on Hamas to release the
hostages do you do you have a view on
that we fight all the time and we say
this must be the main priority the main
goal to so to save the hostage to
release them
I
believe I believe they doing their best
you know they
doing they acting wisely and with with
good
judgment I have to believe that I want
to believe that okay again I'm not
politican I'm a woman I'm I'm a mom I'm
a
mother of course I'm
terrified our children are still in the
middle of the war
we don't know nothing about them no
information we don't know
nothing they been held in a tunels in a
deep underground they can't see the sky
and the Sun and you
know I'm sure they terrified it's one
month now it's 31 days already they far
from us this children never been far
from us more than three two
days if I'm terrified what about them
you know they they don't know when
they're going to see us again they they
separate from the parents they can you
imagine can you imagine your child just
been kidnapped from his bed with pajama
from his house from his safe
place without shoes and just in cruy and
messless way he been taken and it's very
sensitive children that already have
how
you anxiety attacks and the anxiety and
the they all anxiety because we are 20
years under bombs they very s sensitive
and fragile and
they you know we had a movie of my child
I can't see this movie the whole world
seen this movie I can't see it because
it's too painful to see that M how he's
been hold like this I just saw the
beginning and I you know I didn't want
to to watch it but I just saw his he was
so
helpless so helpless so
terrified and so confused you know been
Hing by big terrorist of
Hamas can you imagine your child in this
situation and then it they disappeared
from our life we don't know when we
going to see them again it's look like n
how you said like
forever forever yeah I just want to
welcome back our world viewers we're in
conversation with ranana Jacob sha yomi
and Hades Calderon three mothers who
have lost their children um kidnapped uh
currently in Gaza um we we've talked a
lot about what happened on the day I I I
just I just want to understand you've
talked a lot about your emotions but I
want to understand what happens when
these videos come out when some of the
hostages were released do do you take
Hope from that or or or does it in some
way twist the knife is it is it is it
worse because of those
videos well let's differentiate between
the videos that Kamas was sending us at
the beginning which was probably well
it's part of their
propaganda uh and it's very violent one
The Killing and the and what happened on
the day all of it including the video
that Hadas was talking about showing
showing little children being taken from
their homes I don't see them as great
Heroes by doing so but if that's the way
they perceive themselves that's fine if
you're talking about the uh hostages
released uh both of them are U the last
ones that were released from our
community and at least I was very um uh
very hopeful after their release um
because it it's you know it seems to me
that maybe there is some Humanity on the
other end and uh they saw elderly ladies
that uh needed Medical Care and and
decided to release them so maybe there
is hope after all you said that you're
not getting any information from the
Israeli government Mark reave is coming
on the program tonight what do I need to
ask
him I you know I don't expect them to
give me any information because any
information that would have been given
to me would probably put my children's
life at risk so even if they know
something they're not going to tell 200
or so families what's going on and what
they know or what they don't know so I I
understand it's a very complex situation
what I do want them to um to be
obligated to is to to get the children
out and I'm not sure this is first
priority I was going to ask you that do
you do you think the hostages are the
first priority or is it retribution is
it children not oh hostages in general
but children should not be prioritized
they should be first and they should be
out and they should be out now you know
no deals no negotiations just a timeout
for children get them out but we
understand the
motivation that is that the war cabinet
is following and we understand that the
the need and the desire for Retribution
but is that are the hostages as you say
being prioritized in that and is the
strategy right
it's not for me to say you know I'm not
um politician I'm not a strategic
consultant I'm not a general in the Army
I'm just a mother of two who are held
hostage and I think it's my government's
responsibility to get them out and since
they are children they should be
released no questions asked and that's
that should be agreed on both sides um
as I said children's time out on both
sides
listen we're we're out of time um but
I'm really grateful to all of you coming
in and and I'm sure the sympathies and
thoughts are there from all our viewers
who've been watching so um thank you for
coming in